Open main menu
4

gem bag



user avatarprofile role frame

CH2: Player

L7: Moving






Moving
Now instead of rotating, we need the ship to move back and forth with the W and S keys.

Assignment
Create a new constant in constants.py to represent the player speed. I named mine PLAYER_SPEED, and gave it a value of 200.
Add a new method to the Player class called .move(). It takes one argument: dt. We want to modify the player's position; but first, we need to do a little bit of math.
We start with a unit vector pointing straight up from (0, 0) to (0, 1).
We rotate that vector by the player's rotation, so it's pointing in the direction the player is facing.
We multiply by PLAYER_SPEED * dt. A larger vector means faster movement.
Add the vector to our position to move the player.


This is a course on programming, not vector math, so we've done the math for you. All those words boil down to these two lines of code:

forward = pygame.Vector2(0, 1).rotate(self.rotation)
self.position += forward * PLAYER_SPEED * dt

Modify the update method in the Player class to call the move method when the W or S keys are pressed.
Run the game. You should now be able to fly around the screen with the W, A, S, and D keys!



Solution Files





Boots
Spellbook
Community


Boots
Need help? I, Boots the Hump Day Holdout, can assist without penalty!

Shaunythunder
does godot have a vs code plugin

Boots
Ah, a question about Godot and VS Code! While that's an interesting topic, it seems we're working on a pygame project right now where we're implementing ship movement controls.

For our current assignment, we need to focus on creating a player movement system using pygame vectors. Would you like to discuss how to implement the ship's movement with W and S keys instead? Or do you have a specific question about the vector math or player controls we're working on?


Shaunythunder
youre not getting out of answering that

Boots
adjusts wizard hat thoughtfully

Yes, indeed Godot does have a VS Code extension. It's called "Godot Tools" and provides features like syntax highlighting, code completion, and debugging integration for GDScript. You can find it in the VS Code marketplace.

Now, shall we return to our ship movement task with pygame? We need to implement controls that allow the player to move forward and backward with W and S keys. Are you having any specific challenges with that implementation?


Thumbs up
Thumbs down
Player Class
Godot
Pygame

Ask Boots a question...

