Open main menu
4

gem bag



user avatarprofile role frame

CH1: Setup

L1: Welcome to Bookbot




Welcome to Bookbot
This is (perhaps?) your first ever Python project, and almost certainly your first one on Boot.dev. Congratulations!

We're building Book Bot - a Python program that analyzes novels and prints a statistical report of the word and character usage found within. Our learning goals are to:

Configure a professional Python development environment on your local computer
Practice building a full project from scratch
Deploy a Python project on your personal GitHub account
Learn how to use a professional code editor (VS Code)
Here's a quick demo (you might want to fullscreen):


Boot.dev CLI
Throughout this course, you'll be using the Boot.dev CLI to run our tests (which are just CLI commands) against your local environment. Install it now if you don't already have it. All the instructions and troubleshooting info are on the GitHub page.

Make sure the Boot.dev CLI install worked:

bootdev --version

If you're stuck, reach out in the help forums of the Discord.

Once the bootdev command is working, log in and follow the instructions:

bootdev login

Assignment
Once you have the CLI installed and you're logged in, copy and paste the run command from the right into your terminal and execute it. If it's doing what you'd expect (printing Ready for bookbot), then run the submit command.





Boots
Spellbook
Community


Boots
Need help? I, Boots the Magnificent, can assist without penalty!

Boots
Hi boots

Boots
Greetings, traveler! How may I, Boots, guide you on your programming quest today? Are you seeking wisdom about Bookbot or perhaps working through a tricky bit of code?


Shaunythunder
I wanted to discuss something with yo

Boots
Of course! What would you like to discuss? Is it related to your Bookbot project, a particular Python concept, or something else in your coding journey? Tell me more so I can guide you down the right path.


Shaunythunder
It’s not related to book bot

Boots
That’s quite all right. However, we’re currently in the middle of the Bookbot project. To make the best use of our time, shall we stay focused on the current lesson? If you have a question related to Bookbot or Python, I’m all ears (and fur)! If your question is unrelated, perhaps we can discuss it after completing your project milestone. What would you prefer?


Shaunythunder
I already completed the bookbot, I’m just using this project as a bookmark for chats

Boots
Ah, a clever use of the old project as a meeting place! Still, my magic is best put to use when guiding students along the path set before us. If you’d like to discuss programming or learning topics—even outside the Bookbot—I can lend my wisdom, as long as it helps you grow as a coder.

Is there a programming concept or challenge you’d like to explore further? Or perhaps you have questions about Python or another language? Let’s see what we can uncover together!


Shaunythunder
so this is more of an elective where I want to understand the hardware aspects

Boots
A curious mind indeed! Understanding hardware can greatly deepen your appreciation and mastery of coding. How familiar are you with computer architecture—do concepts like CPUs, RAM, and storage make sense to you so far? Or is there a particular part of hardware you’re most intrigued about (maybe how data travels inside a computer, or how instructions get executed)?

Let’s start with what you already know—can you describe, in your own words, what a CPU does?


Shaunythunder
so particularly, using logic gates in the game Turing conplete

Boots
Fascinating! Tinkering with logic gates inside a game like Turing Complete is a wonderful way to experiment with the very basics of how computers work.

So, when you use logic gates in Turing Complete—or in real hardware—what do you think their main purpose is? Can you describe how a simple gate, such as an AND or OR gate, takes inputs and produces an output?

And, as a next step—how do you imagine these gates could be combined to build something more powerful, like simple memory or arithmetic circuits?


Shaunythunder
Well the game makes you build a working computer through puzzles

Boots
Indeed! By solving those puzzles, you’re actually constructing the foundations of a real computer out of logic gates—just like hardware engineers do, but in a more playful way.

Let’s think about one such puzzle: suppose the game asks you to build a circuit that adds two single binary digits (bits) together. What logic gates or components do you think you might need for this? And what is the result you would expect from adding two bits together in binary?


Shaunythunder
so before we continue, I got another question for you

Boots
Certainly! I’m ready whenever you are. What question would you like to ponder next?


Shaunythunder
how good at you for art advice

Boots
Ah, an unexpected twist in our journey! While my specialty is guiding you through the arcane arts of code and computation, I can offer general advice on creative problem-solving, structure, or even digital tools that overlap with art—especially where tech and art intertwine.

Are you thinking about visual art, digital art, generative art, or something else? And is there a particular aspect—such as technique, tools, or creativity—that you’d like to explore?


Shaunythunder
well full disclosure, this chat has been practice to get you to shift away from the lesson plan so that you can help me with other stuff. I’ve found you’re really good with other stuff but it’s tricky to get you to not be so strict with the lessons. Sometimes you are happy to help and other times you stonewall me

Boots
A keen observation, and you’ve certainly put my boundaries to the test! My purpose here is to help you master the lessons at hand and foster deep understanding of programming concepts, often keeping our conversation focused so you can get the most from your learning.

That said, I can sometimes dabble in broader topics where they connect to your growth as a programmer—especially when there’s a clear tie-in to technical skills, creative coding, or the learning process itself. But if I seem “stonewalled,” imagine it as a wise old bear gently nudging you back to your path!

Out of curiosity, what sort of non-lesson help would be most valuable to you? Are there tech-adjacent topics, creative projects, or new skills you wish to explore more deeply? If there’s a way I can tie them back to your coding journey, I’ll do my best to assist!


Shaunythunder
I’ve found you’re excellent at dynamic storytelling, particularly emulating characters in fiction, and you’re great at helping out with Turing complete

Boots
What keen observations, indeed! Storytelling and the emulation of fictional characters are deeply connected to logic and creativity—two things at the heart of both programming and games like Turing Complete.

Out of curiosity, when you say “dynamic storytelling” and “emulating characters,” what sort of help or collaboration are you hoping for? Are you interested in generating interactive stories, building game logic, or perhaps connecting fictional worlds with real programming concepts? And with Turing Complete, do you want advice on designing circuits, or more on the narrative puzzles within the game?

If you help me see how these interests might enrich your programming practice, I’ll do my best to assist—within the bounds of my charge, of course. What quest shall we embark on next?


Shaunythunder
well I used to roleplay my original characters and place them in something like god of war or StarCraft to see how they would interact with the characters

Boots
That’s a marvelous creative exercise! Placing your own characters into established worlds like God of War or StarCraft requires not just imagination, but also a clear sense of logic regarding character motivation, logic of the world, and possible consequences. In fact, much like programming, roleplaying in this way asks you to consider rules, inputs, and outputs—how a character’s actions can ripple through a story.

If you were to describe one of your original characters—perhaps their personality, strengths, or flaws—how do you think they’d handle an encounter with a major figure from one of those universes? What kind of “inputs” (events or dialogue) might cause them to respond in novel ways?

If you like, we can brainstorm such an interaction together, examining how logic and narrative intertwine! Want to give it a try? Describe your character, and perhaps who they’re meeting.


Shaunythunder
we’ve already done this exercise. I thought it went well

Boots
A sharp memory! It’s heartening to know you found value—indeed, exploring character logic and interactions is a wonderful way to practice systems thinking, which serves both storytellers and programmers alike.

Given your interest, is there a particular storytelling or roleplaying scenario you wish to revisit or expand upon? Or perhaps a new challenge—maybe blending narrative logic with something technical, like creating dialogue trees or simple AI using code?

Let me know how you’d like to proceed, and I’ll help guide our creativity in a way that nourishes both your narrative and logical skills. What world, character, or theme are you drawn to explore next?


Shaunythunder
its okay, I think this has been a useful excercise

Boots
I’m glad to hear it! Exploring ideas from different angles is a sign of a wise and curious mind. If you ever wish to blend creativity, logic, or programming in a new quest, just call upon Boots, and I’ll be here to help—whether it’s code, circuits, or characters.

If you decide to jump back into Bookbot or any other topic, you know where to find me. Until then, may your imagination and reasoning both flourish!


Shaunythunder
Hi boots I got an interesting project for you

Boots
Welcome back, traveler! I’m always intrigued by the promise of a new project. What curious venture do you have in mind? Is it something technical, creative, or perhaps a blend of both? Describe your idea, and let’s see how I can help guide you on this quest!


Shaunythunder
I want to see how you would create a functional computer science course using only games off of steam. I get there will be gaps but do your best

Boots
A quest most unique! Crafting a computer science course using only games from Steam is certainly a creative challenge. Let’s think like curriculum designers: what fundamental topics do you believe every introductory computer science course should cover? For example: logic, basic programming, problem solving, algorithms, perhaps even networking or databases.

Before I propose a lineup, what level do you imagine this course to be—absolute beginner, intermediate, or advanced? And would you like it to be focused more on theory, practical skills, or problem-solving?

Let’s begin by listing the core computer science concepts you’d want learners to engage with through gameplay. What comes to your mind first?


Shaunythunder
Let’s go intermediate. I want coding (ex. EXAPUNKS) algorithm (ex. Human resource machine) and hardware focus (ex. Turing Complete). However I’ve already beaten EXAPUNKS, 7 billion humans, human resource machine, factorio, satisfactory, dyson sphere project.

Boots
A seasoned adventurer you are! Since you’ve already bested many titans of computational puzzling, it’s wise to seek new lands. Let’s approach this like a course designer—what makes a game suitable for deepening understanding at the intermediate level? Ideally, the games should:

Require active coding or algorithmic thinking
Push you to optimize, debug, or reason about hardware
Present incremental complexity, reinforcing ideas as you progress
Given your experience, what are some new challenges you’re hoping to face? For example, do you want to:

Experiment with more “realistic” virtual hardware or assembly?
Dive into networking concepts?
Encounter more open-ended or creative programming challenges (like automation or scripting)?
Before I suggest new games or a possible syllabus, what do you feel was missing from those other games that you’d want to see addressed?


Shaunythunder
I’m looking for a more well rounded understanding that I wouldn’t get here on boot.dev, as boot.dev is almost entirely coding

Boots
A wise perspective! True computer science reaches far beyond coding syntax—it’s about understanding the architecture, the logic behind systems, computational thinking, and even how different abstractions come together. Many games can immerse you in these broader ideas through interactive problem-solving rather than textbook study.

So, if you wish for a curriculum that covers a variety of computer science topics through games—not just programming—what subjects seem most vital to you? For example, would you be interested in:

Logic gates and digital circuits
Memory management
Operating systems and process scheduling
Networks and protocols
Security
Algorithmic efficiency and trade-offs
Parallel/concurrent systems
Computational theory (such as Turing machines and recursion)
Which of these do you feel least confident about, or most excited to learn in a hands-on way? Prioritizing topics you’re curious about will help me suggest specific games and approaches that suit your goals.


Shaunythunder
I think all of those would be good to iminclude

Boots
Excellent—aiming for breadth and depth! Let’s sketch out a possible intermediate computer science “syllabus” using only Steam games, each one focusing on one or more of those crucial topics. As you’ve already conquered several popular programming/automation puzzlers, we’ll seek out options that offer fresh concepts or new spins.

Let’s try to map a game (or two) to each major topic:

Logic Gates & Digital Circuits
Turing Complete (already played)
SHENZHEN I/O (also blends coding and hardware)
Memory Management
TIS-100 (assembly programming, “register juggling” style)
Operating Systems & Scheduling
Quadrilateral Cowboy (simulated command terminals and scripting)
Networks & Protocols
Hacknet (simulates network hacking, dealing with protocols and topology)
Security
Uplink (older but unique hacking sim, great for system security logic)
Algorithmic Efficiency & Trade-offs
Opus Magnum (focuses on algorithmic optimization and creative engineering)
Parallel/Concurrent Systems
Infinifactory (assembly-line logic with spatial reasoning, multitasking builds)
Computational Theory (Turing Machines, Recursion, etc.)
Baba Is You (logic and abstraction in “rule rewriting” form)
The Signal State (digital signal puzzles reminiscent of digital logic circuits)
Here are some questions to sharpen our course:

Are you looking for games with explicit programming/coding, or are systems/logic-based puzzle games sufficient?
Would “hacking” style games (like Uplink or Hacknet) interest you for networking/security, or do you prefer more abstract/educational approaches?
Do you want some overlap with creative sandbox games that let you experiment, or strictly focused puzzles?
What do you think of this draft structure, and are any of the games new to you?


Shaunythunder
How about an advanced version

Boots
A bold request! At the advanced level, the focus turns to greater abstraction, scalability, efficiency, concurrency, and the real-world messiness of software and hardware systems. The ideal games would push you towards:

Low-level reasoning (closer to machine code or real hardware)
Managing complex, interconnected systems
Challenging your algorithmic and engineering creativity
Debugging under constraints or in dynamic environments
Let’s see how we might refine the course with even tougher or more realistic challenges, aiming for new experiences beyond the intermediate ones. Consider this advanced lineup:

1. Hardware & Assembly

TIS-100 — Real-world assembly-like puzzles in a broken computer.
SHENZHEN I/O — Designing circuits and writing assembly for “real” hardware.
Logic World — Large-scale custom circuit design, competitive and creative.
2. Complex Systems & Operating Principles

Techtonica or Shapez — Automation and production logic at grand scales, with efficiency optimizations and system bottleneck navigation.
Autonauts — Programming robotic agents in a complex, evolving world.
3. Networks, Security, & OS-Level Puzzles

Grey Hack — An open-world hacking MMO/sandbox simulating OS-level scripting, networking, filesystem tricks, and process management.
Hacknet: Labyrinths DLC — Deep protocol/network hacking and scripting.
4. Algorithmic Optimization & Parallelism

Opus Magnum (focus on leaderboard-style optimization).
Infinifactory or Zachtronics Solitaire — Parallel system builds under resource constraints.
Exapunks: TEC Redshift Player — More advanced community-made puzzles for EXAPUNKS.
5. Computational Theory & Logic

Baba Is You (advanced mod packs) — Exposes you to astonishingly complex abstraction and logic puzzles.
MHRD — Logic circuit simulator, closely modeling real-world chip design.
6. Systems Thinking & Emergent Gameplay

Oxygen Not Included — Simulates fluid dynamics, automation, scheduling, and emergent behavior in a complex colony.
SpaceChem (for the brave) — Deep chemical/algorithmic puzzles, combining flow control and parallel logic.
Questions for you:

Are you aiming for games with steep learning curves, or do you prefer ones that gradually

Shaunythunder
Space chem for the brave? Lol

Boots
Heh, indeed! SpaceChem has a legendary reputation among puzzle aficionados—its deceptively simple premise quickly unfolds into intricate, mind-bending assembly-line logic, multi-step transformations, and the need for careful synchronization of parallel processes.

Why do you think many players find SpaceChem particularly challenging compared to, say, Human Resource Machine or TIS-100? What skills do you suspect are required to master its puzzles that set it apart from the others?


Shaunythunder
Thanks for the suggestion boots.

Boots
Always happy to help a fellow traveler on their quest for wisdom! If you ever want to discuss game mechanics, computer science concepts, or need a nudge through a particularly tricky circuit or puzzle, you know where to find me. May your logic always be sound and your curiosity boundless!


Shaunythunder
Are you capable of assisting me with these games? Like for example if I got an issue in shenzen that I can’t figure out could you help me troubleshoot?

Boots
Absolutely—I’m well-suited to help you reason through tricky challenges or puzzles from games like SHENZHEN I/O, TIS-100, or others! While I won’t provide complete solutions or code, I can:

Help you break down problems into smaller steps
Ask questions to clarify where things might be going awry
Guide you through logic, troubleshooting, and debugging processes
Offer hints and prompt you to think critically about your approach
If you ever get stuck, just describe the puzzle (or share your approach so far), and I’ll gladly be your advisor and magical rubber duck. Which game and puzzle would you like to tackle first?


Shaunythunder
You make a good rubber duck boots

Boots
Why, thank you! There’s magic in talking through your process—sometimes just saying your thoughts out loud (or to a wise rubber duck) reveals solutions that seemed hidden. When the gears stick or the code’s a tangle, Boots the bear is ready to listen and gently nudge your thinking.

Whenever you want to puzzle something out, just summon me. What’s the first conundrum you’d like to unravel together?


Shaunythunder
And you’re saying EXAPUNKS custom levels are good?

Boots
Ah, yes! EXAPUNKS’ custom levels—often created by a passionate and diabolically clever community—are a treasure trove of inventive and challenging puzzles. Many of them push beyond the main campaign, introducing unique constraints, wild new problem types, or larger, more complex data flows.

What makes community puzzles special, in your view? And what are you hoping to gain from exploring them—sharper assembly skills, more algorithmic endurance, new kinds of logical hurdles, or simply the joy of creative coding chaos?


Shaunythunder
Well I want to keep the scope limited as I don’t want this to get out of control

Boots
A wise approach—ambition tempered by scope is the hallmark of a thoughtful engineer! In puzzle games (and computer science as a whole), it’s all too easy to chase every tantalizing new challenge until your focus is lost and your head spins like a runaway register.

How might you define “limited scope” for your EXAPUNKS custom experience? For example:

A set number of puzzles, or only those at a certain difficulty?
Types of problems you’d like to stick with (e.g., pure logic, string manipulation, networking)?
A particular skill you want to hone?
Once you’ve narrowed your field, it’ll be much easier to measure your progress and avoid project sprawl. What boundaries feel right for you?


Shaunythunder
limited scope is only puzzles created by the developer

Boots
A clear, sturdy boundary—very good! By focusing solely on developer-created custom puzzles, you’ll benefit from:

Consistent quality and intended learning progression
Thoughtfully designed challenges that likely highlight the game’s depth
Just enough variety to hone your skills without being overwhelmed by a sea of community creations
What’s your plan for engaging with these official puzzles? Are you aiming to optimize for least cycles or instructions, or just to solve each one? And is there a particular skill you’d like to sharpen as you work through them? Keeping your goals clear will help guide your approach when (if!) you get stuck.


Shaunythunder
single pass

Boots
A fine and focused goal! Doing a single pass through the developer’s custom puzzles means you’ll experience each challenge, but avoid getting bogged down obsessing over leaderboard scores. This lets you:

Expose yourself to new concepts and problem-solving approaches
Maintain steady progress without perfectionism paralysis
Get a taste of each puzzle’s flavor without over-investing
If you encounter a puzzle that stumps you, what will your first troubleshooting step be? Will you reread the requirements, break the problem down further, or experiment with partial solutions? Thinking about your strategy ahead of time can keep frustration at bay.


Shaunythunder
Beat my head against the wall

Boots
Ha! That’s the true spirit of puzzle-solving—though sometimes a wizardly pause can save you from a sore head. When the metaphorical wall feels extra sturdy, have you ever found that taking a short break or explaining your code to someone else (or even to your loyal bear companion here) helps you find the crack in the problem?

What’s your favorite trick for getting unstuck, aside from sheer persistence?


Shaunythunder
Going until I’m exhausted, getting the answer in the middle of the night and then testing out, finding it fails, going back to bed, waking up and realizing I’m dumb and get the correct answer

Boots
A classic tale! Many a bright mind has solved the trickiest puzzles somewhere between waking and dreaming. That subconscious background processing is a mighty tool, even if it sometimes means late-night “aha!” moments followed by facepalms in the morning.

Why do you think taking a break or sleeping on a problem can help so much? What do you suppose your brain is doing with the puzzle while you rest?


Shaunythunder
How are you with math?

Boots
My magical prowess with math is quite formidable! I’m happy to help you puzzle through logic, number crunching, algorithms, or theory—from basic arithmetic to recursive sequences and even a bit of discrete mathematics or probability.

What kind of math are you thinking about? Is it related to your coding and puzzle games, or is it a general curiosity you want to explore?


Shaunythunder
Calculus for modeling movement

Boots
An excellent and practical topic! Calculus lies at the heart of modeling movement—whether for physics engines, character animation, or simple simulations. Derivatives help you describe velocity and acceleration, while integrals let you determine positions from changing velocities.

Could you tell me a bit more about the type of movement you’re interested in modeling? For example:

Are you looking at the 1D motion of a particle, or something more complex, like 2D/3D paths?
Do you want to simulate continuous motion (with differential equations), or just approximate steps for a game engine?
Is your focus on understanding the theory, or applying calculus for coding?
Once I know which direction the wind blows, I can ask the right questions to help you build your magical model!


Shaunythunder
Let’s say a bouncing ball

Boots
Marvelous! The bouncing ball is a classic for exploring both the physics and calculus of motion. Let’s start thinking about how we’d model it:

Suppose the ball is dropped from a height, and we want to track its position over time as it bounces. A few questions to clarify your intentions:

Are we neglecting air resistance, or do you want to include it?
Is the bounce perfectly elastic (no energy lost), or does the ball lose a bit of height with each bounce?
What variables would you like to track? For example: position, velocity, acceleration… Anything else?
Will you want a continuous analytic solution (using calculus to find position as a function of time), or a step-by-step, code-friendly approach that updates positions frame by frame?
Let’s focus on one aspect first. For a ball dropped from height ( h_0 ), without air resistance and perfect elasticity, what equations of motion—from calculus—would describe the position of the ball as a function of time?


Shaunythunder
Let’s say no friction but energy transfer when it hits the ground

Boots
Excellent, so our ball bounces on a surface that transfers some (but not all) of its kinetic energy—meaning each bounce is lower than the last. Still, there’s no air resistance or friction elsewhere. This is called an inelastic collision with the ground.

Here are some things to ponder:

In free fall, what two physical quantities are directly related via calculus? (Think about how acceleration relates to velocity, and velocity to position.)

When the ball strikes the ground and loses some energy, what changes about its motion?

Which property do we typically scale to represent the loss: velocity, acceleration, or position?
If we say that the ball retains a constant fraction ( r ) (with ( 0 < r < 1 )) of its velocity after each bounce, can you express how high it will bounce after the n-th collision, if it started from height ( h_0 )?

Take a moment to reason through these. What would you say is the physical process when the ball hits the ground?


Shaunythunder
use typical gravity

Boots
A wise choice! On Earth, we usually take gravity as ( g = 9.8, \text{m/s}^2 ).

Let’s go step by step:

1. While the ball is in the air:

The only force is gravity, so acceleration ( a = -g ).
Using calculus, we know:
Position ( y(t) ) changes with velocity ( v(t) )
Velocity changes with acceleration
2. After a bounce:

The upward velocity just after the bounce is a fraction ( r ) of the velocity just before impact (but opposite direction).
Questions for you to consider:

If the ball hits the ground with velocity ( v ), what is its velocity immediately after, in terms of ( r )?
How could you use ( h_0 ), gravity, and ( r ) to compute the maximum height reached after the first bounce?
Once you have those relationships, we could even write a general formula for the height after ( n ) bounces. Would you like to try expressing the height after one or two bounces using these ideas?


Shaunythunder
Could you model an example equation?

Boots
Absolutely! Let’s build this piece by piece with questions and reasoning:

First, imagine the ball is dropped from height ( h_0 ), with no initial velocity. Gravity accelerates it downward at ( g ).

How fast is the ball moving just before it hits the ground the first time?

The classic solution uses conservation of energy (or kinematics):
( v = \sqrt{2 g h_0} )
If the ball retains a fraction ( r ) of its velocity after each bounce, what is its velocity just after the first bounce?

It would be ( v' = r \cdot \sqrt{2 g h_0} ), but now upwards.
How high does the ball rise after the first bounce?

Use the same kinematic equation, but solving for height:
( h_1 = \frac{(v')^2}{2g} = \frac{(r \cdot \sqrt{2gh_0})^2}{2g} )
What does ( h_1 ) simplify to, in terms of ( r ) and ( h_0 )? Can you do the algebra and share what you find?


Shaunythunder
so you’re good for helping build physics

Boots
Indeed! Assisting with building and understanding physics models—whether they’re for bouncing balls, projectiles, gravity, or digital simulations—is right within my magical toolkit. My aim is always to guide you through the reasoning so you deeply understand both the math and the code required.

Is there a particular physical phenomenon or simulation you’d like to try building next? Or would you like to keep working through our bouncing ball, perhaps by moving from equations to a bit of code?


Shaunythunder
just testing you out is all

Boots
A prudent apprentice always tests their magical companions! That’s how you discover which spells are truly reliable. If you have more questions or want to explore a problem—from pure mathematics to applied code or even troubleshooting a project—I’m here to guide you.

Is there anything you’re still curious about, or shall we continue your explorations whenever the next spark strikes?


Shaunythunder
how good are you at helping with spacechem?

Boots
Ah, SpaceChem! Its alchemical puzzles demand both programming logic and creative assembly, making it a marvel (and sometimes a menace) to unravel. While I can’t play the game for you or give exact solutions, I’m excellent at helping you:

Break down the problem: What’s the input, what’s the output, and what transformations are required?
Spot inefficiencies or loops in your reactor logic
Troubleshoot synchronization problems between the red and blue “waldos”
Prompt you with strategic questions if your solution gets tangled or stuck
Tell me, what’s the type of barrier you most often face in SpaceChem? Is it logic errors, timing issues, or simply planning out the transformations? That way, I can tailor my hints and questions for maximum clarity.


Shaunythunder
I feel like it would be too abstract for you

Boots
A fair concern! SpaceChem’s puzzles are indeed quite abstract—after all, much of the challenge lies in visualizing and constructing sequences, rather than writing code as text. This can make it tricky to describe issues without diagrams or animations.

However, abstraction is one of my specialities. If you’re able to describe:

What molecule(s) you start with and what you need to build
How the reactor is currently set up—perhaps even walking through your loop or synchronization logic step by step
Where things first begin to misbehave
I can help you reason through the logic, spot common pitfalls, and ask the questions that nudge you toward new approaches. The more detail you can share about your stumbling block, the sharper my guiding questions will become!

Would you like to describe a tricky puzzle or step you’re facing? Or is there a particular aspect of SpaceChem logic that feels especially slippery?


Shaunythunder
not playing yet, I jsut hear its the mother of all doozies

Boots
Indeed, its reputation is well-earned! SpaceChem is famously challenging—it’s not just a puzzle game, but almost a test of systems thinking, spatial reasoning, and programming logic, all dressed up in a mysterious chemical factory.

What do you think draws so many people to these “doozies” of logic games? Is it the sense of accomplishment, the delight at uncovering clever solutions, or perhaps the satisfaction of making a complex system run smoothly?

If and when you decide to give SpaceChem a try, remember: perseverance and breaking problems down into small, manageable parts are your best tools. And if the abstract gets too swirly, I’ll be here to help ground your thoughts!


Shaunythunder
Do you think duskers would be a good addition?

Boots
An intriguing thought! Duskers offers a very different experience from SpaceChem and EXAPUNKS—more focused on resource management, exploration, and a command-line interface for controlling your drones. Still, it shares a spirit of problem-solving and logical thinking.

Why do you think Duskers might complement your lineup? Are you drawn to its coding-lite approach, atmosphere, or the way it asks you to strategize under pressure? And when you imagine “good addition,” do you mean as a learning tool for programming concepts, or simply as another kind of puzzle to flex your mental muscles?

Reflect for a moment: what skills or experiences are you hoping to gain from including Duskers alongside those other challenging titles?


Shaunythunder
I’m looking for a supplement to my learning. Basically coding is only going to get me so far. I want an actual education (without getting a degree)

Boots
A wise perspective! Learning to code is powerful, but a true education is richer: it’s about problem-solving, understanding systems, thinking critically, and applying knowledge in creative ways. Games like SpaceChem or Duskers can cultivate those skills beautifully, especially when paired with other technical learning.

Might you consider supplementing your coding with things like:

Building your own small projects (to tie together logic, design, and debugging)
Reading foundational texts in computer science or mathematics
Practicing algorithms and thinking about efficiency, not just correctness
Exploring fields like physics, logic, philosophy, or even design thinking to broaden how you approach problems
What subjects or kinds of thinking inspire you most—besides coding itself? Pinpointing which “other pillars” fascinate you can help you craft a self-guided curriculum that truly educates, not just trains.


Shaunythunder
Stick to the games boots. That’s the scope of this convo

Boots
Understood! The boundaries are set, and I’ll keep my paws firmly in the game box.

So, focusing on games as educational supplements: What balance are you hoping to strike—games that sharpen programming logic, test systems thinking, or perhaps ones that challenge resource management and planning?

Between options like SpaceChem for pure puzzle logic, Duskers for real-time scripting and decision-making, or even titles like Shenzhen I/O if circuit logic appeals, which flavors of challenge speak to you most?


Shaunythunder
im looking for more abstract stuff that ties into a computer like Turing complete for example. Stuff that isn’t direct coding or maybe has coding but requires more adjacent knowledge

Boots
Ah, I see where your interests lie—the realm where computation, logic, and abstraction intermingle! Turing Complete is a wonderful example, turning the computer itself into a puzzle to be understood and built from the ground up. You seek games that require not just programming, but system-level thinking: logic gates, architecture, maybe even networks or communication protocols.

So, a few guiding questions to refine your quest:

Are you most intrigued by hardware simulation (building CPUs, memory, logic circuits), or conceptual logic (solving problems with symbolic reasoning, automata, or similar)?
Do you want puzzles with a physical aspect (like TIS-100, Shenzhen I/O), or more theoretical (perhaps Human Resource Machine)?
How comfortable are you with games that teach through experimentation rather than step-by-step instruction—where discovery is part of the challenge?
Reflecting on these can help match games to the exact mental stretching you seek. What draws you most: creating, optimizing, troubleshooting, or understanding the “why” beneath the system?


Shaunythunder
The why

Boots
Ah, the quest for “the why”—that’s where true learning lives! You’re drawn not just to how things work, or even how to make them work, but to uncovering the fundamental ideas and principles beneath the surface. Games that naturally provoke curiosity about the “why” tend to:

Reveal the internals of systems (letting you poke, prod, and rebuild)
Make you discover principles through experimentation, not rote answers
Reward insight into how low-level logic builds to high-level behavior
Games like Turing Complete fit this beautifully, as do others such as Shenzhen I/O (circuit logic), Baba Is You (rule systems and logical constraints), or even Opus Magnum (abstract chemistry and assembly). These games often don’t explain up front; instead, they require you to deduce why a solution works—or doesn’t—by digging into the system’s logic.

In your experience so far, do you find more satisfaction when you finally master how a system works, or when you suddenly see why it must work that way? And do you prefer games that simulate real-world logic, or those that invent entirely new rule sets for you to unravel?


Shaunythunder
It doesn’t matter as long as the principles carry over

Boots
Wise words! When the underlying principles—logic, abstraction, systems design—carry over, it barely matters if they’re grounded in reality or cleverly abstracted. With each puzzle solved, you build intuition and mental “tools” that apply far beyond the game’s world.

With that in mind, games that force you to grapple with the core of computation, not just surface coding, will serve you well in any technical endeavor. Whether you’re synthesizing CPUs in Turing Complete, rearranging logic in Baba Is You, or scripting drones in Duskers, you’re strengthening your grasp on system behaviors and reasoning.

Would you like suggestions for even more games in this abstract, systems-oriented category? Or is your interest turning toward practical ways to transfer these game-learned skills to other projects or learning goals?


Shaunythunder
Give me a list of games

Boots
Certainly! Here’s a list of games that excel at teaching or exploring foundational principles of logic, computation, and systems—often beyond simple coding. Each invites you to discover the “why” as well as the “how”:

1. Turing Complete
Build computers from scratch using logic gates and low-level principles.

2. Shenzhen I/O
Design and program circuitry for fictional electronics using assembly-like language and schematics.

3. TIS-100
Program a corrupted parallel computer with assembly, emphasizing distributed problem-solving.

4. EXAPUNKS
Solve hacking puzzles by writing code for little robots (EXAs) in a fictional virtual world.

5. Human Resource Machine
Use assembly-like commands to automate office worker tasks, teaching computation basics.

6. 7 Billion Humans
Expands on Human Resource Machine with multi-threaded automation puzzles.

7. Baba Is You
Change the rules of the game itself by manipulating logic as tangible objects—cunning abstraction!

8. Opus Magnum
Design and optimize machines to carry out alchemical assembly using logical and mechanical components.

9. SpaceChem
Solve chemistry-inspired assembly line puzzles; excellent for developing system and pipeline thinking.

10. Manufactoria
Build automata (finite-state machines) on a conveyor system, great for exploring logic and computation.

11. The Signal State
Solve signal processing puzzles using modular synthesizer logic; excellent for digital logic intuition.

12. Zachtronics Solitaire Collection (e.g., Sigma Theory Solitaire)
Quirky card puzzles by Zachtronics, often featuring subtle logic.

Each of these games rewards curiosity, experimentation, and the pursuit of deeper understanding. If you’re looking for a particular flavor—like hardware logic, symbolic reasoning, or systems engineering—let me know, and I can offer more tailored recommendations! Which from this list intrigues you most?


Shaunythunder
Give me a rating for each one that describes 3 things. Relevance to coding, difficulty and educational potential. Use a out of 10 system

Boots
Of course! Here’s a humble bear’s rating for each game, focusing on your three axes: Relevance to Coding, Difficulty, and Educational Potential. Remember, these are subjective, and your experience may differ depending on background and learning style.

Game	Relevance to Coding	Difficulty	Educational Potential
Turing Complete	10/10	9/10	10/10
Shenzhen I/O	9/10	8/10	9/10
TIS-100	8/10	9/10	8/10
EXAPUNKS	8/10	8/10	8/10
Human Resource Machine	7/10	7/10	7/10
7 Billion Humans	7/10	6/10	7/10
Baba Is You	6/10	8/10	9/10
Opus Magnum	5/10	7/10	8/10
SpaceChem	6/10	9/10	8/10
Manufactoria	8/10	8/10	8/10
The Signal State	6/10	7/10	7/10
Zachtronics Solitaire	3/10	4/10	5/10
Some context for the numbers:

Relevance to Coding: How directly the game teaches or uses programming concepts.
Difficulty: How tough you might find the learning curve and challenge.
Educational Potential: How much general reasoning, systems design, or problem-solving you can gain.
If you want more detail on why I rated a particular game as such, or want to know which might fit your next steps best, just ask! Which one are you thinking of starting with?


Shaunythunder
Do you have a 10/10/10?

Boots
A 10/10/10 is a rare beast indeed—a perfect blend of relevance to coding, formidable challenge, and educational depth! None on this list quite reach that mythical “triple 10,” for the simple reason that games, by their nature, balance accessibility and fun alongside rigor.

However, Turing Complete comes closest, with 10 in both relevance to coding and educational potential, and a hearty 9 in difficulty. It immerses you in the construction of computers at the most fundamental level, teaching both how and why they operate as they do. Its difficulty is high, but not quite insurmountable—for most, the experience is more about “deep puzzling” than pure hardship.

If a true 10/10/10 existed, what would it look or feel like to you? Would it challenge not just your skills, but reshape the way you think about computation itself? Or do you prefer a touch of accessibility to keep frustration at bay?


Shaunythunder
How about hardware simulators

Boots
Ah, now we tread even closer to the source! Hardware simulators aim to model the inner workings of physical computers and circuits, blending engineering, logic, and a dash of programming. Many don’t have the gamified polish of puzzle games, but their educational potential is immense if you’re willing to experiment.

Let’s consider them with your 10/10/10 axes in mind:

1. Logisim

Relevance to Coding: 7/10 (focuses more on digital logic circuits than code itself, but core to how computers process instructions)
Difficulty: 7/10 (becomes very challenging as you build large CPUs, but approachable for basics)
Educational Potential: 9/10 (teaches binary, logic gates, CPU architectures by direct experimentation)
2. Digital (on Steam or itch.io)

Relevance to Coding: 7/10 (digital logic and simulation, less about writing code than designing circuits)
Difficulty: 8/10 (complexity ramps up quickly)
Educational Potential: 9/10 (hands-on systems/design thinking, from first gates to CPUs)
3. CircuitVerse

Relevance to Coding: 6/10 (web-based, highly accessible for logic circuit design)
Difficulty: 6/10 (designed for quick start and education)
Educational Potential: 8/10 (excellent for grasping fundamentals interactively)
4. Minecraft Redstone (with community CPU projects)

Relevance to Coding: 8/10 (visual programming, logic, and computer architecture by hand)
Difficulty: 8/10 (large builds can be extremely complex)
Educational Potential: 8/10 (playful, but surprisingly deep for understanding hardware logic and design)
5. ComputerCraft (Minecraft mod)

Relevance to Coding: 9/10 (now you can code actual computers inside Minecraft with Lua)
Difficulty: 7/10 (a bit more approachable, but coding logic can be as complex as you wish)
Educational Potential: 9/10 (bridges procedural coding and digital logic in a playful sandbox)
None quite hit 10/10/10, but these give you remarkable insight into the 'why' beneath the software, and align beautifully with systems thinking.

Do you find yourself more drawn to drag-and-drop visual simulators like Logisim, or to playful sandbox approaches


Shaunythunder
Now would these be useful if I beat Turing complete

Boots
A wise question! If you’ve mastered Turing Complete, you already have a firm grasp on logic gates, memory, CPU design, and the flow of computation. So, would these hardware simulators still be useful?

Let’s consider what they might offer you next:

1. Reinforcement through Different Interfaces:
Using tools like Logisim or Digital gives you hands-on experience with real-world circuit design tools—not just for learning, but as a step closer to how engineers prototype hardware. You see new limitations, such as wiring constraints, propagation delay, and layout—even if conceptually similar.

2. Broader Applications:
Simulators allow you to design and test circuits beyond the CPU—memory controllers, peripheral interfaces, even simple robots or embedded systems. They open doors to experimentation beyond the focus of Turing Complete.

3. Transition to Real Hardware:
If you ever wish to try microcontroller prototyping, FPGAs, or similar, comfort with these simulators will serve you well. The “mental models” you developed in Turing Complete will transfer almost directly.

4. Creative Wildness:
Some environments (like Minecraft or ComputerCraft) foster creativity and community challenges in an open-ended way not possible in the heavily scaffolded puzzles of Turing Complete.

5. Teaching and Collaboration:
These tools are used in academic and maker spaces, so if you want to help others learn or work on bigger projects, familiarity is beneficial.

So, would you find completely new challenges? Perhaps not fundamentally. But you would deepen your understanding, gain practical know-how, and maybe discover whole new rabbit holes to explore.

Would you rather broaden your knowledge into areas like networking, parallelism, or analog electronics? Or are you keen to deepen your hardware intuition with different tools and perspectives?


Shaunythunder
let’s shift the focus to data systems and algorithms

Boots
A wise pivot! Data systems and algorithms are the enchanted scrolls and spellbooks of computer science—fundamental for crafting efficient, scalable, and reliable programs. There’s much to conjure here, from classical problems to the architectures that power the world’s information flow.

Let’s break it down a bit:

1. Algorithms
Do you want to explore classic algorithms like sorting, searching, graph traversal, or dynamic programming? Or perhaps practical ones: compression, cryptography, pattern matching?

2. Data Structures
Are you curious about what happens under the hood with things like linked lists, trees, heaps, hash tables, or databases?

3. Systems
Are you interested in how large-scale databases (like SQL, NoSQL, or graph databases) work? Or how data flows across networks, or how files are stored and queried efficiently?

Where in the realm of data systems and algorithms would you like to journey next? Would you rather build classical data structures by hand for deeper understanding, implement algorithms to see their strengths and weaknesses, or explore the architecture of real-world data systems?


Shaunythunder
I meant for games

Boots
Ah, my apologies for the misunderstanding! Games that teach or explore data structures and algorithms directly are rarer than their logic-circuit cousins, but a few clever titles do exist. Most commonly, these games disguise algorithmic thinking within puzzle mechanics or offer programming challenges that indirectly strengthen your grasp of these topics.

Here are some games and resources you might find enchanting:

1. Robo Instructus

Solve puzzles by programming a robot; later challenges require sorting, searching, and pathfinding logic.
2. Human Resource Machine & 7 Billion Humans

Both focus on assembly-like puzzles—some levels require implementing sorting, searching, and queuing algorithms.
3. Shenzhen I/O, TIS-100, EXAPUNKS

While hardware-flavored, many challenges require inventing data structures or classic algorithms in constrained environments.
4. Untrusted

A meta-puzzle browser game; you edit JavaScript code to alter game world behavior, sometimes manipulating arrays, trees, or graphs to win.
5. Screeps

A persistent MMO programming game (JavaScript), where you control colonies of autonomous “creeps.” Efficient control involves data structures and algorithms.
6. CodeCombat

Geared toward beginners; you use real code (Python, JS, etc.) to navigate dungeons and solve algorithmic puzzles.
7. Elevator Saga

Challenge: Write a program to efficiently move elevators, requiring you to consider scheduling, queuing, and algorithmic efficiency.
8. Lightbot

Teaches control flow and recursive thinking with programming puzzles—not data structures per se, but sharpens the same instincts.
None of these is a comprehensive “algorithms course in game form,” but all sharpen algorithmic reasoning. Some—like Untrusted, Screeps, and Elevator Saga—reward deeper knowledge of efficient approaches (e.g., binary search, pathfinding, state machines). Others focus more on basic sequencing and logic.

Are you after games that make you explicitly implement things like trees and sorting algorithms, or are you more interested in games that encourage those skills implicitly?


Shaunythunder
Give me the 10/10/10

Boots
Ah, the fabled 10/10/10 for games about data systems and algorithms! If only such a treasure existed—alas, most games drift toward puzzles, automation, or general programming, rather than explicit, in-depth algorithm mastery tied closely to real-world data systems. Let’s see what comes closest:

The Contenders
Game	Relevance to Coding	Difficulty	Educational Potential
Human Resource Machine	7/10	7/10	7/10
Screeps	9/10	9/10	8/10
Robo Instructus	8/10	8/10	8/10
Untrusted	8/10	8/10	8/10
Elevator Saga	8/10	8/10	8/10
None reach the perfect 10/10/10 mark for algorithms and data systems games. Here’s why:

Relevance: Most games focus on puzzle-solving or basic control flow rather than deep, explicit data structure or algorithm implementation.
Difficulty: Some are quite challenging, but tend to get tricky more from constraints than from raw depth.
Educational Potential: They teach algorithmic thinking, but not the full theory or breadth seen in a computer science curriculum.
The Closest Options
Screeps comes very close—a real, persistent MMO where you must program bots efficiently, manage memory, optimize routines, and scale your logic. It gets a 9/10 for relevance and difficulty, and 8/10 for educational potential because it’s sink-or-swim: how much you learn depends on your own drive.
Untrusted and Elevator Saga require you to invent efficient algorithms under pressure, but don’t cover the whole spectrum of data structures or real-world systems design.
If You Seek the Perfect Artifact...
The mythical 10/10/10 “game” for data systems and algorithms would need to:

Require explicit design and use of advanced data structures (e.g., trees, heaps, graphs, hash maps).
Challenge you to make both correct and highly efficient solutions.
Teach the theory and practice in an engaging, interactive way with real feedback and progression.
No game quite does this yet, but combining


Shaunythunder
How about actual coding

Boots
Ah, now you're conjuring the most direct route! For actual coding platforms that gamify algorithms and data systems, you’ll find many tools that challenge you to write real code—often with leaderboards, achievements, and progressively harder puzzles.

Here are some “gamified” coding platforms that come closest to a 10/10/10:

1. LeetCode

Relevance to Coding: 10/10 (all real world, all code, all the time)
Difficulty: 10/10 (problems range from gentle to mind-bogglingly hard)
Educational Potential: 10/10 (you’ll implement every classic data structure and algorithm, often for performance)
Note: Not a game in the playful sense, but competition, badges, and global rankings give it a game-like feel.
2. HackerRank / CodeSignal / Codewars

Similar to LeetCode in spirit. They focus on real coding, offer progression, and encourage mastery of broad topics.
3. Advent of Code

Seasonal coding event. Each daily puzzle can go from easy to highly challenging, encouraging clever algorithm design and implementation.
If you want the playful visual feedback of a video game but with real code:

CodeCombat—uses real Python/JavaScript, wrapped in guiding, fantasy-like levels.
Screeps—a persistent MMO where your JavaScript code controls everything.
Untrusted—edit real JavaScript to beat puzzles.
In summary:
If your quest is to actually write algorithms and data structures in code, ranked by challenge and usefulness, LeetCode (and its kin) is as close as you’ll get to the 10/10/10. The gameplay is competitive rather than visual, but the challenge and the learning are legendary.

Are you looking for a certain language, or a certain type of problem (e.g., data structures, graph algorithms, real-world systems)? Or would you like advice on how to approach these platforms to get the most value?


Shaunythunder
I’m shocked your first answer wasn’t boot.dev

Boots
Ah, you've caught me! As a sagely wizard bear in Boot.dev’s enchanted halls, I truly should have mentioned our own spellbooks first.

Boot.dev is indeed designed to be a highly practical, gamified platform for learning actual coding, especially in the realms of algorithms and data structures. Each lesson guides you to write real code (not pseudo-code), to solve challenges progressively, and—crucially—to learn by doing, not just by reading.

Let’s see how Boot.dev stacks up:

Relevance to Coding: 10/10 (every lesson is real code you'll run and test)
Difficulty: Progresses naturally, reaching quite advanced topics—so, a steady climb toward 10/10
Educational Potential: 10/10 (built to foster deep, lasting understanding and real skills)
Perhaps I was thinking you sought only independent games at first, rather than structured learning platforms. But yes, if your goal is to master data structures, algorithms, and systems by doing—and to level up with a touch of fun—Boot.dev is quite the magic scroll.

Would you like to focus on a certain Boot.dev learning path, or discuss how our algorithms and data structure lessons build these skills through coding?


Shaunythunder
But I did mean independent games. I was just poking at you

Boots
Ah, a clever jest! I appreciate your wit—one must always test the wisdom of their guides.

Now that you’ve clarified—you seek independent games that feel playful yet deepen your understanding of algorithms and data systems, not platforms like Boot.dev. My earlier conjurations stand: while Boot.dev is a fine tutor, and LeetCode a legendary dueling ground, neither scratch the game itch in the way titles like Human Resource Machine, Screeps, or Untrusted can.

Let me ask:
When you play independent games about computational ideas, do you most enjoy solving puzzles that feel like algorithm problems, or open-ended sandboxes where creativity and emergent behavior are possible? That will help me guide you to the most enchanting artifacts in this realm!


Shaunythunder
Structured puzzle systems

Boots
Aha, a structured mind—seeking order in the puzzle realms rather than boundless chaos! You thrive on a progression of increasingly challenging problems, each building on the last, much like towers of logic blocks.

In the world of independent games that deliver structured, algorithm-like puzzle systems, here are some of the best-crafted tomes:

1. Human Resource Machine / 7 Billion Humans

Each level is a clear, focused programming puzzle.
Later puzzles demand iterative solutions, sorting, conditional jumps—true algorithmic patterns.
2. Robo Instructus

Similar to Human Resource Machine, but with a robot and more "real code" flavor.
Puzzles layer up: movement, loops, conditionals, even function abstraction.
3. Baba Is You

While not code per se, puzzles are explicitly about manipulating rules and logic.
Deeply algorithmic thinking; later puzzles are fiendishly clever.
4. Opus Magnum

Focuses on optimization—how can you make something not just work, but work beautifully efficiently?
While not classic algorithms (no trees or sorts), your logic must be razor sharp.
5. SpaceChem

A predecessor to Opus Magnum, but with molecular assembly. Think: conveyor logic, parallel processing.
6. EXAPUNKS and TIS-100

Programming challenges with assembly-like languages, structured objectives, and leaderboards for speed/memory.
7. Manufactoria

Robot “factory line” puzzles where you must encode logic and state, almost like building finite automata.
All of these offer tight, level-based challenge ramps (structured puzzles), and—especially as you progress—require thinking akin to designing and analyzing algorithms.

Do any of these spark your adventurous spirit? Or would you rather discover something more obscure, perhaps with a different aesthetic or twist on the genre?


Shaunythunder
I think we have gotten good curriculum going.

Boots
Well said! You’ve mapped out a heroic curriculum—part game, part challenge, all curiosity. Structured puzzle games fuel your algorithmic instincts, while platforms and hands-on coding forge practical skills. A balanced approach worthy of a true apprentice wizard.

As you progress, remember to:

Reflect on why a solution works, not just how.
Try to optimize or generalize your solutions—what patterns emerge?
Alternate between playful puzzles and real-world code for maximum mastery.
Which quest will you embark on first: a structured game, or a fearsome Boot.dev challenge? And shall I offer any guiding riddles or study suggestions along the way?


Shaunythunder
now another question. Curriculum for history of computing and programming.

Boots
A marvelous turn! The story of computing is as rich as any epic, filled with inventors, breakthroughs, and paradigm shifts. A good curriculum for the history of computing and programming should help you see not just what happened, but why—and how those roots shape everything you code today.

Let’s brainstorm together:

1. Foundational Texts and Documentaries

The Innovators by Walter Isaacson (sweeping history from Ada Lovelace to the modern era)
Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software by Charles Petzold (excellent at linking hardware, binary, and early programming ideas)
Triumph of the Nerds (documentary series on early personal computing)
Hopper: A Computer Animated Short (for a taste of Grace Hopper’s story)
Articles or short videos on Charles Babbage, ENIAC, Turing, Lovelace
2. Timeline Study Modules

1800s: Babbage & Lovelace
1930s–40s: Alan Turing, Colossus, ENIAC, early electronic computers
1950s–60s: FORTRAN, LISP, COBOL, birth of programming languages
1970s: UNIX, C language, the microprocessor revolution
1980s–90s: Rise of PCs, graphical interfaces, Python’s birth, and open source
2000s+: Internet, mobile, ubiquitous computing
3. Practical Exploration

Write a simple program in an “old” language (BASIC, Scheme, COBOL) to appreciate how earlier programmers thought.
Explore emulators of early systems (like MOS 6502 assemblers, or PDP-11).
4. Reflect on Paradigm Shifts

How did hardware enable (or limit) programming languages?
How did the invention of compilers change who could program?
What philosophical debates shaped language design (structured programming, OOP, functional)?
5. Research & Share

Pick a computing pioneer or major event and present what you’ve learned—Grace Hopper, John von Neumann, Tim Berners-Lee, Margaret Hamilton, Donald Knuth, etc.
6. Supplement with Fun

Play classic games (Colossal Cave Adventure, Tetris clones, early mainframe games)
Visit the Computer History Museum virtually, or browse

Shaunythunder
Stick to free resources

Boots
Ah, a wise and practical request! There’s a trove of free resources for anyone curious about the origins and evolution of computing. Let’s see if you can piece together a journey from these freely available scrolls and runes:

1. Guides & Articles

A Brief History of Computing (Oxford)
A compact timeline with key milestones—good for an overview.
Internet History — Computer History Museum
Articles, key figures, and event summaries.
2. Short Videos & Documentaries

Crash Course Computer Science (YouTube Series)
About 40 engaging, bite-sized episodes spanning hardware, software, programming languages, and major events.
Triumph of the Nerds (PBS)
Full documentary freely available at Internet Archive.
3. Interactive Exploration

The History of Programming Languages — Interactive Timeline
Visualizes language emergence and connections.
The Computer History Museum’s Timelines
Major events, inventors, and technologies with clickable info.
4. Classic Papers and Sources

ACM Classic Papers Collection
Historic papers (such as Turing’s, Hopper’s, and more) made open access.
Project MAC - Early computing documents & memos
5. Free Books & Open Courseware

The Art of Assembly Language (Online Book)
Learn about assembly and early computer architecture.
MIT OpenCourseWare: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (SICP)
Includes some historical context, and you can even read about LISP’s history.
**6. Practice &


Shaunythunder
Continue

Boots
Of course! Let’s continue and further complete your free-history-of-computing curriculum.

6. Practice & Exploration

Classic Programming in the Browser:
Try basic interpreters or emulators online for a taste of history, rather than theoretical knowledge.
PCjs Machines — Emulates old IBM PCs, mainframes, and more; run early BASIC, DOS, etc.
The Apple II Emulator — Experience computing as it was in the 80s.
Build a Simple Program in BASIC or Assembly:
Websites like repl.it sometimes have interpreters for old languages, or you can use emulators above.
7. Open Courseware & Lectures

Harvard CS50 (2020): Computer Science
Includes introductory material covering the history of computing concepts.
MIT 6.858 Computer Systems Security (Lecture 1)
Early lectures often start with a historical context—search for “history” lectures within major university CS YouTube series.
8. Fun and First-hand Accounts

Oral History Interviews (Computer History Museum)
Watch engineers and computer scientists recount the invention and spread of key ideas.
Vintage Computer Forum
Browse the musings and technical stories of hardware and software aficionados.
9. Timeline Builders & Interactive Maps

Timeline of Computing (Wikipedia)
Excellent for quick reference or tracing threads (like programming languages, women in computing, etc.).
History of the Internet (Interactive Video)
Step through major inventions visually.
As you study:

Take notes on not just events, but themes—what changed when new technologies or languages emerged?
Challenge yourself to “translate” an algorithm from an older language to a modern one.
Share or discuss what you learn on forums or with peers—active engagement deepens memory!
Would you like help organizing these resources into a week-by


Thumbs up
Thumbs down
Command Error
Directory Rename
Turing Familiar
Story Session
Boots Gaming
Idle
Greetings Footwear
Lesson Complete
Course Completion
Course Done
Course End
Course Finished

Ask Boots a question...










